# Flashcard-App

## Lab 3 - Solution

### App Description
Enable the user to save their data / information entered using a database capabilties and also providing a imageView which direct the user to their entered data after it had been saved whether the user existed the app or not.

### App Walk-though

https://imgur.com/a/PGfQ9Kb


## Required
- [x] User can create a card and still see their created card when the app is relaunched.
- [x] User can create muliple cards and browse through all created cards

## Optional
- [ ] User can delete a card and no longer see it in their deck anymore
- [ ] Flashcards are shown in random order instead of the order they were created in
- [ ] User can edit a card and see the edit saved when they browse through their deck of cards
- [ ] User can create flashcards with multiple answers and be able to browse through cards with multiple choice answers shown




















## Lab 2 - Solution

### App Description
Adding these functionalities; provide the user with an ability to alter the question and answer using intent and few imageView features. Creating a Activity java file which is connected seamlessly with the previously created MainActivity 

### App Walk-though
`
https://imgur.com/a/PNbItwN


## Required
- [x] User can click on a ‘+’ button that takes the user to new ‘Add Card Screen’
- [x] The 'Add Card Screen' has a cancel button to take the user back to the main screen
- [x] User can enter and submit a Question and Answer through the 'Add Card Screen'
- [x] User will see the card they just created on the main screen when they press the 'Save Button'
- [x] Push your progress to GitHub!

## Optional
- [x] User can edit a card
- [ ] An error message is shown if the user doesn't enter both a Question and an Answer
- [ ] A notification is shown if the card was created successfully
- [ ] User can also enter multiple choice answers when creating a card
- [ ] App is further styled and customized!



## Lab 1 Solution

### App Description
Creating a Flashcard Application. The first process within this  was to was began creating
the structure; a question presented to the user of the app and when the user of the app click the screen the answer displays.

### App Walk-though

"https://imgur.com/a/mEPfgCY 


## Required
- [x] Create New Project in Android Studio
- [x] Add a view for the front side of the flashcard to display the question
- [x] Add a view for the back side of the flashcard to display the answer
- [x] Build in logic to show the answer side when the card is tapped
- [x] Push code to GitHub
## Optional
- [x] toggle the flashcard between the question side and the answer side
- [x] Style the question and answer side of the card to better distinguish between the two sides
- [ ] Add selectable multiple choice answers beneath the card
- [ ] Change the background color of the multiple choice answers when clicked to indicate whether the question waanswered correctly
- [x] Further customize and style the card

## Lab 1 Instruction
## Required

1. Create New Project in Android Studio
Concepts / Terminologies introduced : minSDK , Android's Activity

create a new android project (minSDK 23)
be sure to give your app a good name (it doesn't have to be Flashcard)!
choose to create an 'Empty Activity'
once the project has been successfully created, run your app to make sure you can see the default Hello World! screen
Notice that when you created the project, Android Studio automatically generates a lot of files. The two most important ones that we care about right now are MainActivity.java and activity_main.xml

2. Add a view for the front side of the flashcard to display the question
Imgur
Concepts / Terminologies introduced : xml, RelativeLayout / ConstraintLayout, Android's Views, Android's TextView, dp vs sp, id, match_parent

Recall that activity_main.xml is the layout file where we can add, position, and style different views and that TextView is a specific type of view used in Android layouts to display text, much like how Button and ImageView are other specific types of Android views.

** If you are not able to see a preview of your layout and see an error that says "Render problem. Failed to load AppCompat ActionBar with unknown error", follow the steps here to fix the issue.

For this step, we'll be working with the activity_main.xml file. Since this was autogenerated, we need to modify it a bit.
The root view in activity_main.xml is curently ConstraintLayout . Change it to be RelativeLayout instead
Delete the autogenerated "Hello World!" TextView
Add our own TextView and customize it with the appropriate dimension and text
give the TextView a more appropriate id name such as flashcard_question to help us identify it later
adjust the TextView's dimensions so that it takes up the whole width of the screen (match_parent) and has a height of 200dp
populate the TextView with text so that it displays a question
make the text more readable by increasing the font size to 40sp
center the text
run your app to make sure you can see the question displayed
For a more detailed guide on how to add this custom text view, take a look at this step in the guide.

** Centering the TextView can be tricky. If you're not quite able to achieve the center alignment, ask your classmates in your breakout room how they achieved the centering!

3. Add a view for the back side of the flashcard to display the answer
Imgur
similar to how we created the TextView for the question in the previous step, add another TextView to the layout and populate the text with the answer to the question
move the answer text view to be below the question text view so we can see both on the screen
run your app to make sure you can see both the question and the answer texts
For a more detailed guide on how add a new TextView and position it, take a look at this step of the guide.

4. Build in logic to show the answer side when the card is tapped
Concepts / Terminologies introduced : Listeners


Recall that certain Listeners in Android allow us to handle user interactions within our app. OnClickListener is the most commonly used type of Listener that allows us to know when the user does a single tap in our app. When the user taps on a view if the view has an attached OnClickListener, the OnClickListener will be called and the code within the OnClickListener will be executed.

since we don't want to show the question and the answer at the same time anymore, now we should move the answer text view to be at the same location as the question text view
set the visibility of the answer text view to be invisible so it doesn't block the question text
set an onClickListener for the question text view that will hide the question text view and show the answer text view
run your app to test that when you click on the question, the answer text appears
For a more detailed guide on adding click handlers, take a look at this guide.

** OnClickListener's need to be correctly attached to the correct view in order for it to work properly. The block of code also needs to be placed in the correct method in MainActivity.java. Ask your breakout room members for help debugging if you weren't able to get successfully attach the onClickListener.

5. Push code to Github
Concepts / Terminologies introduced : Github

Now that we have the first version of our app implemented, we should push our project to Github to save our progress.

Create a new repository on Github and push your project
For a more detailed guide on using Github within Android Studio, take a look at this guide.

## Optional
1. Build in logic to toggle the flashcard between the question side and the answer side

Similar to how we added an onClickListener to the flashcard_question view, we can add another onClickListener to flashcard_answer to achieve the toggling effect
The onClickListener for flashcard_answer should handle setting the visibility for flashcard_question and flashcard_answer
** OnClickListener's need to be correctly attached to the view that wants to listen for user actions and this can be tricky when there are multiple views that have different listeners. Ask your breakout room members for help debugging if you weren't able to achieve the toggling effect.

2. Style the question and answer side of the card to better distinguish between the two sides

Add a background color and text color for the question card view
Add a different background color and different text color for the answer card view
For more detailed instructions on customizing background and text colors, take a look at this guide.

3. Further customize and style the card

Create a custom Shape Drawable to give the card:

rounded corners
colored border
custom background color
Give the card a shadow/elevation effect

If we want the question side and the answer side of the card to be stylized differently, we will have to create two separate Drawables and set them as the views backgrounds individually

For a more in-depth walkthrough on these customizations, check out this step in the guide

4. Add selectable multiple choice answers beneath the card

Add 3 additional TextView's under the question/answer card. We should use properties of the RelativeLayout to achieve this.
For more detailed instructions on working with RelativeLayouts, check out this guide

5. Change the background color of the multiple choice answers when clicked to indicate whether the question was answered correctly
Note: The GIF above is looping through 3 different scenarios. You don't have to build any type of 'reset' logic. 

Add onClickListeners to each of the 3 additional TextViews we previously added and put in logic to change the background colors for the different TextViews accordingly
For detailed instructions on how to set a view's background color dynamically, check out this step of guide

6. Add a button that will toggle hiding and showing the answer choices

Note : Notice that whenever the 'eye' icon is clicked, it also switches state based on whether the answer choices are showing or not. When the answers are showing, the 'eye' icon has a diagonal line through it to indicate that clicking on it will hide answers. When the answers are not showing, the 'eye' icon indicates that clicking on it will show answers.


